JUDY WOODRUFF: There
are no easy answers,
and few good options,
when it comes to dealing
now with North Korea.
We look at whether new economic
sanctions like those being
considered at the United
Nations could change
the trajectory of
the country's nuclear
ambitions with David Cohen,
who served as undersecretary
for terrorism and financial
intelligence at the Treasury
Department during the
Obama administration.
He also served as the
deputy director of the
Central Intelligence
Agency from 2015 to 2017.
And John Mearsheimer, a
West Point graduate and
former Air Force officer,
he writes extensively
on strategic issues and is a
political science professor
at the University of Chicago.
He also works with the U.S.
intelligence community.
And we welcome both of
you to the "NewsHour."
I want to start with
you, David Cohen.
We heard in Nick Schifrin's
report Ambassador Nikki
Haley referring to
countries doing business
with North Korea in
violation of U.N. sanctions.
What is the picture?
Give us a picture of the
financial and business
dealings other countries
do right now with
the North.
DAVID COHEN, Former U.S.
Undersecretary for Terrorism and
Financial Intelligence: Well,
most of it is illicit, with
the exception of the trade
with China, and that tends to
be in coal, in minerals
and very few other items.
There are other countries
around the world, in Africa in
particular, in the Gulf, where
you have North Korean laborers
working and where you have
North Korea selling weapons
to these countries.
That is in violation of U.N.
Security Council resolutions and
in violations of the sanctions.
And those transactions
tend to flow through
financial institutions
in China in a way that
is intended to be disguised
from the international
community, because they
are illicit transactions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, you have
written that new sanctions could
be written, could be enacted
in a way that would put
real pressure on the North.
What would those look like?
DAVID COHEN: Well, what they
would look like are sanctions
principally focused on Chinese
front companies and Chinese
institutions that are
facilitating this illicit trade.
If you look at the way
that North Korea engages
with the world today,
there are a few nodes,
20, 40, 100 nodes, but it's a
limited sets of these companies
and these financial institutions
in China where the bulk of
the financial activity occurs.
We could focus on those nodes,
squeeze those nodes, and as a
result of that, squeeze North
Korea.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John
Mearsheimer, you have
taken a look at this.
Do you think that could work?
JOHN MEARSHEIMER, University
of Chicago: No, I don't think
sanctions will work, Judy, and
I think there are
two reasons for that.
One is that North Korea
is not going to give
up its nuclear weapons.
Indeed, it would be crazy to
give up its nuclear weapons.
The United States is interested
in regime change, and nuclear
weapons are the ultimate
deterrent.
So, you would have to inflict
enormous pain on North Korea
to get it to give up those
nuclear weapons.
I mean, you would really
have to put tremendous
economic pressure on them.
And you cannot do that, in
large part because the Chinese
will not allow you to do it.
For China, North Korea is
a vital strategic asset.
For China, it's imperative
that the North Korean regime
remain in place and that the
regime not be toppled.
Therefore, if we try to put
really significant pressure,
economic pressure, on Pyongyang,
the Chinese will just move in
and counter it and make sure
that the North Korean regime
survives.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me...
JOHN MEARSHEIMER: And, again,
that regime is determined
to keep its nuclear weapons.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David
Cohen, what about that?
DAVID COHEN: Well, John's right
that the North Korean regime
looks at the nuclear weapons
programs as the guarantor
of regime survival.
But there is the possibility
that there is a wedge that can
be driven between the nuclear
weapons program and
Kim Jong-un's desire
to stay in power.
And the way to drive that
wedge is by putting coercive,
diplomatic and economic pressure
on the regime in North Korea.
We will need China to
make this effective.
We cannot do it over
China's objections.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But his
point is China won't do it.
DAVID COHEN: Well, I
think we have not fully
tested that proposition.
And one of the purposes served
by the sanctions that were done
last week and the sanctions
that we can do is to encourage
China to take this more
seriously and to work with us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John
Mearsheimer, why can't that
be -- why can't that happen?
JOHN MEARSHEIMER: Well, let
me respond to David's point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sure.
JOHN MEARSHEIMER: What President
Trump wanted to do was, he
wanted to get the Chinese to
put significant pressure on
North Korea to stop these
nuclear tests and to reach some
sort of modus vivendi
with the United States.
But the Chinese
could not do that.
And the reason the Chinese
could not do that and the reason
they won't be able to implement
David's suggested policy
is because the Chinese
have remarkably little
leverage over North
Korea.
And the North Koreans
fully understand that.
And the North Koreans don't
play along with the Chinese
when they put pressure on them,
because the North Koreans fully
understand that the Chinese
need North Korea to survive.
And once the North Koreans
understand that, it gives them
significant room to basically
poke the Chinese in the eye.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, David Cohen,
what about his point that North
Korea -- that China really
does have limited leverage,
not as much as I think some
people have been thinking?
DAVID COHEN: They actually have
quite a lot of leverage, in
both the illicit and the illicit
- - sorry -- the licit and
the illicit financial activity
that goes in North Korea.
They can squeeze North
Korea on the coal sales.
Korea on their illicit
financial activity.
They will do it to an
extent that doesn't
cause a destabilizing
situation in North Korea,
but they can do it in a way
that can make North Korea
more interested in a potential
negotiation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So you're
talking about threading a
needle here, John Mearsheimer.
It sounds like we're talking
about something in between doing
nothing and doing a lot more.
JOHN MEARSHEIMER: Well, you
can do a little bit more, but
the point is to make the North
Koreans give up their nuclear
weapons, you have to put a
great deal of pain, a great
deal of punishment on them.
And the Chinese are not going
to play that game, because the
Chinese are heavily dependent
on maintaining a
sovereign North Korea.
And the last thing they want
to do is see the West bring
North Korea to its knees, and
then see North Korea crumble,
and run the risk of South
Korea incorporating North Korea
into a greater Korea.
This would be a strategic
disaster for the Chinese.
And this is why we have so
little leverage over North
Korea when we try to go through
the Chinese.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about that?
DAVID COHEN: Well, I think
that John and I agree that it
would require an extraordinary
amount of pressure to bring
the North Koreans to the table.
My point is that
we ought to try.
The alternative is to sort of
accept a North Korea with a
nuclear weapon, with an ICBM.
There is the potential
that we can use pressure
working with the Chinese
to thread that needle
to bring the North Koreans
to the table and to find
a way to denuclearize
the Korean Peninsula,
which the Chinese have been very
clear about for many years is
also their policy preference,
is a denuclearized
Korean Peninsula.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And to bring --
perhaps this would bring them
to the table to talk in that
way.
DAVID COHEN: Correct.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right,
we're not going to resolve...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Go ahead.
I think what we agree -- John
Mearsheimer, quick comment?
JOHN MEARSHEIMER: Yes,
just very quickly.
Let's assume that David's
right, and we can put tremendous
pressure on the North Koreans.
Do we really want to do that?
Do we want to back a
nuclear-armed state run by
Kim Jong-un into a corner?
Isn't that the most likely
scenario where they might use
nuclear weapons, when they're
desperate?
DAVID COHEN: Well, I think
the most likely scenario is if
we threaten them militarily.
And I think it's very
important we exercise restraint
militarily in the short-term.
I think this is a long-term
plan that needs to be
implemented smartly, but
it can be accomplished.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I think what
everybody agrees is, there
is a lot at stake here.
David Cohen, John
Mearsheimer, thank you both.
JOHN MEARSHEIMER:
You're welcome.